While simulation techniques demonstrates the advantages on analyzing the complex systems, it relies
on the input data models to capture the characteristics of the real world (Barton 2012). In fact, input
parameter modeling is a long existing domain in simulation research since an appropriate input data model
can effectively complement the simulation system and improve the accuracy (Rabe and Scheidler 2014).
A key challenge on the construction of input model is that it is approximated from the finite samples in
the real world. This induces uncertainties and errors of estimation, which is subsequently propagated to
the simulation output (Barton 2012; Zhou and Xie 2015). Based on our observation from the simulation of
JD logistics network, the quality of input data modeling significantly impacts the accuracy of simulation
results. Several sampling and approximation approaches have been explored to address this issue (Barton
2012; Xie et al. 2014; Poropudas et al. 2011; Law 2013). These methods basically aim to discover the
statistical distributions of the input variables and the reliability cannot be guaranteed without considering
the underlying impacting factors (Li and Ji 2019). Furthermore, a decision maker may desire to simulate
a future or virtual event, in which scenario no historical data is available for sampling or approximation
due to the shift of configuration.
Inspired by the recent success of machine learning applications in various domains, we explore to
incorporate machine learning techniques into input parameter modeling for logistics network simulation
in this work. In the logistics network operated by JD Logistics, the performance (e.g., processing time)
of the nodes and routes are critical inputs of the simulation model. The key challenge we are facing to
estimate them is that in such a huge logistics network, the performance of each component is impacted by
very complex external factors, thereby posing difficulties on the accurate estimation. Therefore, We intend
to investigate the underlying factors that impact the input data distribution and mathematically model the
impact using machine learning techniques. In this approach, the components (e.g., nodes and routes in
the logistics network) are represented by a list of features extracted from the impacting factors, which are
subsequently mapped to the desired input data using a model trained on historical record. The advantage
of this approach is reflected by both the accuracy and robustness. For instance, the characteristics of a
component may shift if the operation policy is updated, in which scenario the data sampled from historical
record can not be used directly for statistical modeling. In contrast, the machine learning based modeling
can handle this update appropriately and generate reliable input data for simulation as long as the values
of features are clearly given.